so I just mentioned in my girlfriend
that some people including Peter singer
openly say they draw an ethical line and
they say if human cognition is below
this line human cognitive ability human
intelligence below this line then human
beings can be killed or eliminated why
did this come up because we're talking
about veganism in case you think we only
talk about veganism on the Internet and
I was pointing out that there are people
who basically feel that some animals
should have animal rights that's very
common it's very calm there are people
who feel that monkeys should have animal
rights but not cockroaches there are
people who feel dolphins should have
animal rights but not goldfish there are
a lot of people for the way that there's
some line where it's like above a
certain level of intelligence animals
get special privileges and below that
they don't so you asked me yeah I think
you just said how do you feel about that
you know that humans below a certain
level of intelligence right it's okay to
murder them so keeping it all the way
real which is my which is my steez you
know I have a brother I have a brother
who has never spoken a sentence in any
language
he is so severely [ __ ] he is so
severely mentally incapable I'm told he
can eat and you know obviously other
people have to feed him he's never had a
job sir he's only I haven't which was a
big controversy in my family it was a
huge source of tension between me and my
father was why did you never bring me to
visit him why did my father himself
never visit this brother and why was
this brother's existence kept secret
from me until I was in my like mid-20s
it was a big it was a big big moral
thing because you get on I'm really into
just doing the right thing because it's
the right thing to do like if you got
this son I'm sure like based on what
I've been told he may not appreciate you
visiting him like I think he's so
mentally incapacitated I think my fault
this is part of what my father said my
father said that he didn't like being
visited that that maybe triple you know
the might not appreciate you coming
around and talk to him you may not
understand a word you're saying but I do
think in terms of duty and honor you
know what I don't know minimum once a
year you got to go and visit your own
son I'm you know twice a year like I'm
not
it like you know okay you're not gonna
go every week to talk to somebody who's
not even capable of maybe recognizing
you or appreciating your being there you
know like I understand you know I can
understand that
but anyway so in my own family one of my
own brothers a guy with a lot of the
same DNA as me has so little mental
capacity that to what I've been told by
his by his sister who's also my sister
in case you haven't guessed yah is that
uh but you know one of his sisters
fascist mentality has never spoken a
word in any language he's never spoken a
sentence you know he can't he's severely
obviously you know there are animals
that have speech they're animals they
have a that have sentences and have
complex speech and speak ideas so you
know this is if we're actually playing
this game than my own brother that would
be a big question yes so who were you're
saying who are you saying it has that
opinion someone in the animal rights yes
if Peter singers could fit the most
farmers and and to my knowledge and
unless a natural vegan wants to come out
and clear her name she used to you know
support Peter singers vision which
you've recently brought up and I'm not
gonna demonize these people they're a
position I disagree with their position
but it's coherent it makes sense like
just really briefly but the same thing
within within Buddhism generally
Buddhists feel that the more an animal
resembles human beings the more it has
human rights you know I mean so wouldest
Street monkeys and elephants your
elephants are quite at quite a high
level and very often Buddhists will say
they don't give a damn about fish that
fish just don't count now I you know I'm
not gonna demonize their normal people
you know I mean these are these are most
of them are good people some of them are
terrible people whatever you know I mean
like people live with that that's a
mainstream ethical belief you know I'm
not gonna demonize that that's I mean
that's important to say even because
remember I've dealt with really extreme
politics here in China we're surrounded
by people who are members of the
Communist Party and you tell their own
children that the mass murder of
millions of people was okay under you
know the Great Leap Forward and the
Cultural Revolution and that's normal
here in China and you got to deal with
that face to face I mean you can live in
a country that's full of people who
support what the Catholic Church did
when the Catholic Church killed millions
of people
these are mainstream beliefs even if
they're wrong
you have to be or even if I personally
think they're wrong you know it's not I
can it's all I can show you some simple
factual proof that they're that I'm
right they're wrong I can just talk
through why I see these things the way
they do but it's so silly your question
so where where do I stand on that issue
now I just respond to say look let's
raise the stakes let's talk about my own
brother let's put a human face on it
right now why is my brother alive given
that he was less abandoned by his own
father because the Canadian taxpayer we
have a system in Canada which is why the
streets of Canada are not filled with
mentally impaired beckers which they are
in some countries like Laos like in Laos
you get a sense of how many [ __ ]
people there are because you see them on
the street and in Canada you don't you
know in in Cambodia get a sense of how
many physical cripples there are the
people with one leg because you see them
on the street you know I mean in Canada
we have a wealthy enough country to
support an army of mentally disabled
people
I think the ethical decision you're
making is fundamentally very different
in Canada than it is in Laos or Cambodia
that is my honest answer you know what I
mean I don't think every country has the
luxury the candidate has now I think in
a country again I think it should be
democratic and I think it should be
transparent you know I don't think it
should be in a black box of issues
nobody's allowed to debate but I do
think generally speaking in a country
like Canada if you have that debate
you're gonna make rational reasonable
choices I mean you give an example one
of the issues is so if you have these
people who are severely mentally
disabled probably you cannot take care
of them close to the home of their own
parents probably do it decentralizes so
maybe in every province you have one or
two centers of special care for severely
disabled people and then if when the
parents want to visit or though other
relatives or friends want to visit they
have to drive a long way because Canada
is a really big country now the
Netherlands doesn't have that problem
Denmark doesn't no offence Netherlands
is just not that big but in Canada you
could have people who are separated from
their children if they if they sign them
up for this kind of care but long as it
is that is that is a rational budgetary
problem where you say well we can't have
five hundred centres don't the disabled
maybe you can maybe you can have five
hundred but you can't have 600 whatever
the number is you know you've got to
make responsible decisions of that also
to be a democratic way I mean can I was
mentioned you we still have
controversies about women getting breast
augmentation getting you know silicone
breast implants paid for by tax payers
part of democracy is drawing quite a bit
like for psychological reasons because
their psychiatrist fills it a form
saying it'll help raise her self-esteem
this kind of thing and getting it paid
for by taxpayers now you know different
people draw the line at different places
but sure I mean so you know part of my
answer is I'm actually comfortable with
dealing with those questions in a
democratic way democracy is not perfect
there are lots of examples of issues
democracies can't deal with and deal
with really really badly
you know John Stuart Mill his big
concern was about the majority
ruthlessly oppressing the minority and
that is a problem when you look at today
we're just looking at Iraq when you look
at countries where the majority of
people may be Muslim the majority people
may be Muslim fundamentalist what kind
of government what quality of governance
are they going to provide for atheists
for Christians for Jews for other
minorities I mean in Iraq there was the
case of the Yazidis another heart to
define religious and ethnic minority
within Iraq there are problems with the
majority both minority but it's an
interesting counterpoint to note that a
lot of the time you have a totally
helpless minority of people like
mentally disabled people they have no
ability to form a union or have lawyers
you don't whoa bargaining on their
behalf or something they have no ability
to equal the lobby government or play
the games other vocal noorie's my too
but I can really give credit democracy
is good at some things bad at others the
sewage treatment democracy does not
handle super very well you know you can
make an argument that maybe
dictatorships are better at dealing with
sewage treatment you know it is funny
the way those things go but you know I
think that's actually a very positive
thing and can done other other wealthy
western counties are positive example
that do I think though I mean what
I've lived in Laos I've lived in
Cambodia I've been involved you know in
my small way and humanitarian work in
politics and everything there and those
are very different art decisions you
have to make and you know I have a
remember saw one documentary about
dealing with mentally disabled in insane
people people quite likely had
schizophrenia in some poverty-stricken
areas of Africa I remember a documentary
that looked at it and you know then you
couldn't you get into very different
very hard questions yeah yeah that's
your question yeah yeah I think it's
just a case-by-case basis like what
exactly the disability level is right
yeah I mean it is good that in civilized
society is like in Canada you get you
can pay for the treatment of these
people for their whole lives but that's
what we do yep and and somebody has to
draw the line to Mona to somebody else
to said how are you actually gonna
deliver those services and but I just
mentioned my approach here again is not
a rights-based approach you know my
approach I think a credit come I would
say it's just deontological the question
is what can we do for them how are we
gonna decide to do what we're gonna do
for them and you know how do we but it's
just about an ethic of care and the most
fundamental idea here is doing the best
you can and recognizing that in a
third-world poverty stricken post world
country like Laos the answer of doing
the best you can may be may be totally
different I read I don't know if ever
mention this to you there was a
heartrending account of a young girl who
was sold into sex slavery in Laos and
came back with her mind completely
broken and the conditions that were
described that she was living in F XI
was returned to her family her family
had had a wooden addict probably the
house was wood you know I can I can
imagine ever living allows the type of
house this was so in the upper story
they chained her to the wooden post that
supported the the wall and what this
article described was all day you know
with no particular sleeping schedule she
would alternate between lying on the
floor sleeping passed out
curled up in the fetal position
screaming and shakin constantly
screaming and shaking and running in a
straight line you know bovis is pulling
on her chain but running as if trying to
escape that was how she responded to the
experience of being sold into sex
slavery and obviously rape repeatedly
what have you and the other thing that's
that's eerie about this if you've ever
done research on this this area you can
interview not dozens but hundreds of
young women who went into prostitution
at the same age under the same
conditions and who even worked with the
same pimps because the same pimps work
with how do at the same brothel you know
what I mean and didn't respond to the
experience in that way at all you know
but this this young woman totally
mentally collapsed and the question was
what can we as lotion society zap our
researcher what can we do for this young
woman keeping her chained to a wall
chained to a post this is not a great
solution putting her into a hospital in
Laos may be worse let me say if you go
to the hospital you know I mean like
it's not I mean what what can we do with
cases of extreme mental disability or
extreme trauma or extreme insanity
mental incapacity without you those are
those are really hard questions and I
don't think the Communist Party allows
answers but it's a part of the role of
democracy again I don't see this in a
human rights perspective I see it in
okay so you have the demos come together
and trying to make sober decisions of
okay what is the best we can do how we
how are we gonna do this and you know in
Canada we do have some very generous
programs you can see programs about
disabled people playing ice hockey you
know getting disabled people out and
plague them on the ice and you know they
can't wear skates cuz they'll get you
know that's too dangerous but you know
where you give them special shoes and
they can shuffle them out of the ice and
you have a whole bunch of D poultry
there are some there are some very
generous things we can do but you know
between that and you know actually
having someone chained to a wall you
know a metal and metal and wood and you
know I mean obviously this whole
conversation happens in the shadow of
Adolf Hitler the reality is the the
eugenic policies that they don't feel
they're engaged in of you know actually
exterminating mentally
sable people there's a very interesting
history that how that how that came
about how the decisions were made I
think I think that was the sobering
moment for Western civilization to look
and say okay either we're going down
this eugenics path or you know or what
what does it mean to take responsibility
for the fact that in any given society a
certain percentage of people are never
going to be able to contribute there
never be able to hold a job and pay
taxes and we got to look at our amassed
wealth as taxpayers and just ask
ourselves what can we do for them
expecting nothing in return and again to
keep it all the way real you know
there's also a sense in which that's not
altruism because there's a sense in
which we don't want to see those people
on the street we don't want to see them
begging on the street corners and that
is indeed partly for our sake not for
their say well some do I mean some do I
think I think you know a Peter Singer
and someone that's that's a real
question
some do Peter Singer is Pro murder he
says if you don't reach a certain target
oh I'm certain with my brother he would
support murdering my brother yeah
keeping it all the way real about us
yeah